Northern Territory Labor Chief Minister Michael Gunner has critiqued the party's federal election loss saying he believed it had won the "argument around jobs" in the NT but not in Queensland.The surprise federal election loss was partly the result of a crash in Queensland in its primary vote to 27 per cent and swing towards the Coalition.Many party insiders are blaming that on the Queensland Labor government delaying Indian company Adani's controversial Carmichael Coal Mine, which will create many jobs when construction on it begins.However the Northern Territory's only two federal electorates Solomon and Lingiari stayed in the hands of Labor MPs Luke Gosling and Warren Snowdon, albeit with reduced margins.NT Labor insiders had been worried voters would punish the two federal Labor MPs in a protest vote over the chronically indebted and in deficit Gunner government's budget, but the party did well."If you look at why federal Labor got the tick in the Territory and not in Queensland, I think there's a lot of similarities between both those jurisdictions," Mr Gunner told Mix FM radio.Mr Gosling and Mr Snowdon had argued Labor policies would help create jobs, with promises about remote housing for Indigenous communities, $300 million in federal funds for a new ship lift and funds for Kakadu National Park, he said."From the outside looking into Queensland we lost the argument around jobs there," Mr Gunner said."The reason why that is so important is I think for most of us - for me certainly - for most people out there you've got to know that you've got a job, you can pay the bills."Once you've got that you want to know it's a fair wage you're getting and its a safe workplace you are going to, that is a very Labor thing, these are Labor values."Once you've got that squared away, then then you can win the argument around other things whether it is climate change or that but for most people that stress at home is real, you've got to have a plan around that."The Gunner government faced a similar dilemma when it lifted a two-year moratorium on fracking last year, which it hopes will lead to the NT becoming a world-class gas hub, creating jobs.Fracking is strongly opposed by a significant number of NT residents and environmentalistsMr Gunner said he believed he would work productively with the Morrison government.Mr Morrison said in Darwin during the election campaign that 'the Gunner Labor government is the worst government in the country' because of its budget woes and need for more GST money."That is politics, rhetoric whatever ... if you saw Scott's comments in every jurisdiction he was prepared to go strong negative," Mr Gunner said.