HONG KONG; 
People living on Hong Kong Island could face rush-hour gridlock if a planned cluster of man-made islands to the west does not connect directly to Kowloon, a concern group has warned.
The Save Lantau Alliance, a pressure group opposed to the government project dubbed Lantau Tomorrow Vision, issued the warning on Monday as lawmakers prepared to continue vetting a funding request for studies for the reclamation scheme on Wednesday.
Ronald Taylor, an infrastructure and transport expert, pointed to the fact that there was no link to connect the future man-made islands to Kowloon.
Residents on the new islands will [have to] travel to Kowloon via the [Western Harbour Crossing] on Hong Kong Island, he said, adding that would create a bottleneck at Connaught Road West, a major road on western Hong Kong Island leading to the entrance to the cross-harbour tunnel.
Taylor also cited a 1992 feasibility study that found the transport system in Kennedy Town could only cope with the traffic flow brought by an additional two double-lane roads, not the three envisaged in the Lantau Tomorrow Vision scheme.
The group said an estimated 1.1 million inhabitants of the new reclaimed islands are likely to use the planned tunnel and road network to Hong Kong Island as their main gateway to Kowloon, making their daily commute and that of residents in areas such as Kennedy Town and Sai Ying Pun a constant nightmare as congestion problems worsen.
Taylor, a former executive director of Maunsell Consultants Asia, a major civil and structural engineering firm that has taken up many government projects, noted that the Lantau scheme was not supported by any transport study and the government wanted to ram it through without proper consultation.
The scheme, considered Chief Executive Carrie Lam Cheng Yuet-ngors pet project, aims to create a new metropolis off the shores of Lantau Island involving the creation of 1,000 hectares of man-made islands near Kau Yi Chau, with an estimated bill of HK$624 billion (US$80 billion) and an entirely new transport network.
The network will include three rail links and three major roads connecting Hong Kong Island, Lantau, the future artificial islands and Tuen Mun  parts of which will be sea crossings.
The alliance has studied a preliminary transport impact assessment conducted in 2016 by the Civil Engineering and Development Department for the proposed artificial islands, before the current government rebranded and expanded the reclamation scheme last year. The assessment was released on the groups request earlier this month.
Edward Yiu Chung-yim, a land policy academic and former lawmaker, said the preliminary assessment was based on an estimated population of 700,000, while the figure had been revised upwards to 1.1 million under the new plan.
According to the 2016 report, the existing transport network can already barely cope, or fails to accommodate, the 2016 population estimates, Yiu said. The situation will only get worse under the new population estimates.

